---
title: "Portfolio Statement"
excerpt: "A brief statement about what I try to do and what I understand in critical making "
collection: portfolio
---
# Portfolio Statement

	Critical making is important as it reminds us we are all human in a reified and objectified society where often at the end of the day we end up isolated and alienated from what we do. Critical making, sitting at the crossroads of the practical, the artistic, the theoretical and the enjoyable finds a space to create belonging, inclusion and communities through making. As a disabled scholar living in the Canadian prairies I try to engage with the ideas of rediscovering yourself or times where you must forge a new understanding of you. This influence on my critical making comes from my own autobiographical experience of becoming disabled through illness, and the physical, emotional, and social changes dis/ability manifests. 
By making stories related to the affect of our emotions, bodies and sensation abilities I hope to celebrate our ability to change and morph to new physicality, or sensation states. This serves as an explanation of the two other stories on this page as of this writing in April of 2026. The first is Going Home a Twine retelling of my sensation of becoming disabled following cancer surgery in 2022 and my initial feelings and emotional connections. What I hope it highlights by the end is how we as humans must at times of change and struggle remind ourselves of what is important and what really motivates us beyond just ourselves.
 The second story is open ended, and one you can make for yourself. It is a one page TTRPG only requiring paper, a pencil, a six sided die and yourself. It is a game exploring how you rebuild yourself and what you think is important in doing so after encountering something that has made you temporarily non-existent. This game has been influenced by a time after my last major cancer surgery in 2022 when I found myself questioning my literal existence, and trying to figure out if the person I could see and experience was indeed still me, or if perhaps I had been “Ship of Theseus’d” out of existence. At that time I used to feel the idea that “This body is not my body”, “The person in the mirror is not myself”, and “The voice I use to speak is not my voice”. In those moments I would have to mentally reassemble myself and remember what mattered most to me. The game’s system has been designed to mimic that process of creating a re-assemblage of the elements that now are you.  
